Resources that helped me in my frontend web development journey

*INTRODUCTION*

I have been programming for a few years now, about 3yrs mostly doing backend stuffs with django(python). However i got into frontend web development about a 6 months ago. When i started, i had little knowledge in html and css and javascript (the core of every modern website/webapp). I wanted to level up my frontend skills and was very surprised about the huge amount of content i had to learn. Frontend Web development has really gone far and there were new concepts i was not familiar with. Some concepts like client side rendering, components, single page applications, static sites generators, progressive web apps, JAMStack(javascript,reusable api, headless cms), bundlers(like webpack),
modern css(flexbox,css grid), package managers(npm, yarn), frontend frameworks(vue, react,angular). I was really overwhelmed and suffered burnout in some cases. Finding resources to learn all these was not difficult as there were tons of articles, videos on it, however getting those that really got me up quickly and fully understanding the big picture was not easy at all.

*MAIN*

Below i list the resources that really helped me leveled up quickly(I am still learning though)

CSS
1.mdn (link to it) -- gave me the basic/solid understanding
2. Jonas Advanced css and sass cource(https://www.udemy.com/advanced-css-and-sass/)--- learn flex,css grid and sass(css preprocessor)
3.Grid by example(gridbyexample.com) -- to solidy my understanding of grid

Html
1.w3schools
2.mdn

Javascript
1.Brad Traversy, modern javascript from beginning(https://www.udemy.com/modern-javascript-from-the-beginning/)
2. You dont know js series by Kyle simpson(really solidified my understanding of js)
3.Eloquent javascript 
4. Professor Frisby's mostly adequate guide to functional programming

Javascript Framework(Vue.js)
1.Official vue.js site -- documentation (very beginner friendly)
2.Vue router --official vue router site -- very well documented
3.Vuex--state management(official vuex site)

Progressive web apps(pwa)
1. The complete progressive web app by maximilian schwarzmuller(https://www.udemy.com/progressive-web-app-pwa-the-complete-guide/) --very beginner friendly
2. Google developer's guide to service workers(https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/primers/service-workers/)

Build tools(webpack)
1.Official webpack documentation


*CONCLUSION*
Blog sites that i also read(and still read)
1.Freecodecamp.com medium page
2.Scotch.io 
3.dev.to
4.css tricks
5.smashing margazines

I have realised that the best way to understand what you are doing is to actually build something(project or protoytpe) no matter how small or trivial it is. Remaining consistent is always the key
Some simple projects i built along the way
1. Gottrivia (vue.js, pwa,pure css)
2. Hackernews clone (vue.js, firebase hn api, vanilla css)
3. Pollr (mongodb, express, vue, vanilla css)
4. Boards.io (vue.js, drag and drop support)
5. Built other freelance projects for some clients

you can follow me on twitter  



